---
layout: post
title:  "Why I Am Blogging"
date:   2025-01-30 09:00:00 +0000
categories:
---

The blogger visakanv set themself a challenge to write 1,000,000 words to get better at writing, and they are [not far off now](https://visakanv.com/1000/). This blog has come about chiefly because I want to learn to write better. My training has been in science, engineering and maths, and I feel that I have never had the cause to just write a lot. To get better at this, I need to practice, and a blog a month for a year seems like an easy way to get started. I plan to write about whatever strikes me as interesting, and to not decide in advance about length or topic. I'm not making as large a commitment as visakanv yet, but who knows what my resolution will be next year!

The desire to improve my writing has come alongside a general interest in becoming more productive — not in the sense of doing more, but producing more. I read [a piece](https://www.infinitescroll.us/p/on-consumption-vs-production) by Jeremiah Johnson at the end of last year on the importance of doing things that provide value to others. He suggests that people often build their sense of self-identity around consumption instead of production, and that this ends up making them feel miserable. The piece really resonated with me. I'm hoping over this year – alongside this blog – to be prodcutive in other ways too.

I assume that most of you reading this will be people who know me in person and therefore already know what I'm interested in. If (incredibly) you have discovered this blog yourself and have been interested enough to read this first post, welcome! I'm a PhD student in theoretical ecology, building mathematical models of plant communities. I'm interested in the mechanisms that govern natural systems, and how we can get at those with the tools of maths. I'm also a recent (re-)convert to Christianity, and I'm trying to work through my thoughts and questions about my faith. I think that science (and particularly maths), ethics and God have natural links with each other, and I will hopefully write more about these ideas as the blog develops.